# Fire Emergency Preparedness Dashboard

View the dashboard at: https://briol009.github.io/FireDashboard/

This project is a culmination of my semester goals, which sought to create an all-in-one fire safety and risk dashboard program for the Geocommons, located in Blegen Hall. The project aimed to improve building safety standards and response time in critical fire scenarios. When a fire emergency occurs, there is no time to search for building information, entry and exit points, or occupied rooms/spaces. Due to time constraints placed on first responders, the project consolidated essential building information into a user friendly, publicly accessible dashboard. The project was created for first responders, building managers, and the general public to quickly learn information about the building's layout and optimal exit routes in the case of fire emergencies. Every second counts in an emergency, and having a centralized dashboard can significantly reduce the time it takes to find critical information. First responders need to know which rooms are populated and where to prioritize safety efforts. This dashboard is crucial for large, complex buildings, where traditional evacuation procedures make accounting for all the evacuees difficult. Previous pilots and minimum viable product (MVP) saw the demos of different fire safety features such as: people counting, presence detection, lidar building scans, least cost paths to the nearest exit, and virtual reality visualizations. The MVP and pilots were combined into a single dashboard, hosted on GitHub pages. The project dashboard’s main feature is a VR-capable model of Blegen Hall, where a user can switch between exploring the building in VR and viewing a digital 3d model. On the sidebars of the website, there are features that count occupants of a space, detects motion/presence of said occupants, has a calendar of Geocommon events, Blegen Hall building information, and fire safety and prevention information. These features provide a plethora of information, which allows for improved decision-making and has the potential to save more lives in an emergency fire scenario.